morning. There we go. We're just going
to do a quick little stream
here. Work on a few
things. Cryo Replay did not work out of
the box on Neural MMO. No big
surprise, but uh you know, there's a lot
more to fix with this before we draw any
conclusions.
Yeah, the plan for today is short
stream, break for breakfast and
exercise, come back, long stream, and
hopefully by then this thing will be in
a decent
shape. We're getting pretty close to the
point where I can start running serious
experiments on this. I
think pretty close.
Man, this like pre-step post step
is really annoying.
There's just a lot of branching logic in
here. A lot of branching
logic. Maybe we can fix the maze
environment. That would like that is a
case where prioritize replay should
definitely help, right? All
right. I think this is also a case where
I need to leave the siphon in place for
now.
This has got to be the OBS,
right?
Actually, we can just do
if we'll just do
this. Hopefully, we figure out what is
wrong with this end.
Oh, wrong
end. Okay, so this didn't catch it,
oddly
enough. Maybe this indexing over here is
wrong.
It's fine,
right? No, it's not
fine. Okay. How's this happen?
OBS is the right
size. Oh, it's because E3B is
on. Where is this thing? Yeah, this is
This cannot be on because I haven't
fixed it
yet. All right. So, that
train should do something.
No reward
ever. Interesting.
Okay. What about now with
this? That's semi
prioritized. Doesn't seem to be getting
any score whatsoever.
Interesting. Could have sworn that that
did get some reward
before. What about this?
Let me make a quick sanity because I'm
uh I'm getting a little suspicious. Oh,
wait. No, there it is. It It actually
did get
um a bit of reward in
there. I'm fine.
do like do I just need to make this
smaller? This should work.
Yeah, that works.
Okay. Yeah. So, there's the initial
problem right there that we're seeing,
which is it getting some reward and then
just not doing anything with it.
So the idea with the
uh prioritize replay is like if I take
top K, it should never get rid of that
data from the train set.
Hey, welcome. Currently testing out our
prioritize experience replay
implementation. Seeing how I can improve
some
things. I mean, this does look like it's
doing better. At least it's not just
dropped all the way to zero immediately.
But this is not what we'd expect yet. Is
this that snake? Now, this is like a
procedurally generated maze end. The
idea with that is uh it's really sparse.
And uh one of the goals with prioritized
replay is if you get if you're on a
deterministic end and you get the reward
once, then you should basically just
keep that sample uh in your replay
buffer for quite a
while and you should latch on to that
reward a lot
faster. Okay. Well, this is probably a
culprit right
here. Can I do like 128 on this?
still now. Huh?
Do you use TD error as priority? Not
quite. You use the advantage as the
priority signal. I believe J will give
you TD of one uh when you
have gamma equal no lambda equals zero
and gamma equal one is like baseline
discounted return and then it's this
weird exponential
interpolation of them otherwise
Yes. It's interesting that it keeps
getting a bit of
reward, but like not quite enough.
It's a fixed map in this
test. Maybe we just need
like crazy BPT horizon for this.
That's not going to fit. Maybe this
fits.
Maybe
this this will give
us weighted random
sampling during
training. But then it should make sure
that we keep samples in the cryobuffer.
Sum of probabilities less than equal
Z.
Really? They're all zero.
What is this?
These are all the right shape.
Oh, it's in comput
J. Interesting.
There must be like bad data in there or
something, right?
steps
horizon. Maybe my G is wrong.
How does this block idx get divided up?
Hang
on. Threads per block.
Num steps plus thread per
block. 256 blocks.
Is that
correct? That should give you the row,
shouldn't it? Block index, block dim.
This should actually give you the
correct row.
How the heck is this out of
bounds? How the heck is this out of
bounds?
Oh, I guess cuz it doesn't line up with
a block. Is that the
issue? I bet that's it.
Is that not a multiple of
um Maybe it's not a multiple. Hang
on. I think it has to be a multiple of
256. That's an easy check.
It's taking forever to
compile something
screwy. Uh, this thing got partial
compiled, I assume.
You build this.
when the stats suddenly go down.
So I guess then the question is going to
be
um on the advantage
prioritization. Oh, is it training?
Hey, look at that.
So,
um, that's pretty
crazy. Is this 21 size or 31 size? I
think this is still 21
size. 21 size.
This is solving though.
Um, that's not an easy
task. We'll see what the actual episode
length ends up being.
Okay. And we actually will be able to
compare
now. We'll be able to compare a couple
of these
And I think we'll be able to see whether
this works the way we uh we want it to.
So this is it getting lucky a few times
from random search. What usually happens
is it gets such a small fraction of
rewards
um that when you train on the whole
batch you actually don't latch on to the
reward because you get it too
infrequently. It looks like, oh, it's
very high here. But actually, this is
just like the first trajectory that
finishes is always going to be one where
you got
lucky. And boom, there you go. It
solves. So, that's pretty solid. It took
longer last time, didn't it? Yeah. 80
mil.
So there's going to be some
inconsistency as to how long it takes to
do that, but still not
bad. And now if we go
to we just do
mal
random. Does it still solve?
This one might still solve actually
because this is only the 21x
21s. We will see.
Yeah. So this one still
solves. I believe 31 is where it starts
to get very difficult.
So this is too
easy. You need to be able to at least
get some reward in order for either of
these methods to work. We will see
whether we get any reward at
all. So far enough
So 21 might just be doable and 31 might
just be
impossible. Yeah. So that's just zero
reward.
No method will be able to solve that. Um
at least without like explicit
exploration
stuff. We go sort of somewhere in
between. Need it needs to be something
that consistently gets some
reward. Five maybe.
Also don't know how this thing is
seated.
It got some I think it got like one
solve.
Okay, there you go. That's a very sparse
small amount of reward right
there. So, this is what we're going for.
This is the like if you run it for long
enough, you will eventually get a
solve. But as you can see, it's not like
solving it again at all thereafter.
Okay, so this is where we would
expect to maybe be able to do something
with prioritized replay that we This is
like crazy crazy sparse. I guess if we
get the trajectory twice, it should be
enough.
Okay. So now we do
prioritized. Got the little score spike
here. Now we do prioritized.
And if that's consistent, we're
good, right? If that is a consistent
result, we are
good. It's a crazy sparse task.
Okay, let's just run it again to see if
it
replicates because we don't get the
lucky early solve at this one. Oh,
there's
one. And it does a pretty good job of
um getting more solves
Good day.
Welcome. Okay. So, this is a perfect
test if it's able to solve based on
this.
I would think that it should be able to
because as long as it's getting some
reward, it's going to run a whole bunch
of
epochs on uh those
trajectories. It's still a hard problem,
mind
you.
So, it's fine if it takes a while.
We just want to see if it actually
can get something with this.
It shouldn't be possible for it to just
be permanently stuck
here based on the new algorithm. In PO
without prioritized replay, um what can
happen is that the reward is so
infrequent that you just get drowned out
by noise.
But here, since you're running so many
update epochs on the good
samples, we should see this
solve. Yeah.
Okay. So, it seems that
um those are very good signs of life for
prioritized
replay. Very, very good signs of
life. Um running on one map like this is
going to be really inconsistent.
but solving 31 by 31 mazes um without
curriculum or anything is kind of
crazy. You can see there this is a
currently a 800 horizon task with one
reward.
So, yeah, I'm taking 91 million steps
just to solve a maze, but this was like
800 steps, one
reward. So, that's pretty
good as far as like exploration tasks
go.
um like benchmark exploration task. This
is ridiculously harder than pretty much
anything I've seen in academia and this
works. Cool.
Now we do the randomized version of this
thing and we see what
happens. So now it's got a whole bunch
of
maps. Is this going to be easier or
harder? PO did not solve this.
PPO actually got like zero zero score on
And again, if this takes it a bunch of
steps, we're not concerned. We just want
to see if it
solves. What was the yellow
run? Same thing as before, captain. Uh,
it's the environment is very sparse. So,
if you get lucky and you get reward at
the start of training, it's a lot
easier. These are the same
run. But the main thing is I've
literally I've never seen PPO solve
thought you got some solves before. Uh
the ones
with so with on single maps it doesn't
solve uh plain PO there's a curriculum
thing that does solve but this doesn't
include that. This is just straight up
prioritized experience
replay. Yeah. Now, whether it solves the
randomized maps, this might be harder
because on the randomized
maps, there's not really a way for to
learn a robust exploration strategy when
it can't just memorize some
maps. The mazes are just too big.
This is now 8,000
maps. So, intriguingly,
like this keeps getting some
support. I see PO often just drop to
straight up zero. PO will just
collapse. So, this keeps getting a small
amount of
score, but it doesn't seem like it's
able to do very much with that,
which I think this makes sense. This
result makes
sense. It would be really cool if this
just solved, but
um yeah, I think there are too many
maps. Why do you think it got one to me?
That's just
luck. It's literally just like brownie
in motion in a big
maze. You don't get samples back until
you finish a maze or whatever. So,
uh, if you're going to get lucky, you
actually have a decent chance for it to
be right at the
start. That's just a property of the
logging.
Is it worth just like increasing map
size or not a map size model size or
something here?
Maybe we just do the curriculum version
or not the I guess domain randomized
version, not curriculum
version. Oh, this is 25 by 25 maps.
Okay, this is still not the craziest
result. Let's try this.
I don't want to spend very long doing
this. I think I just want to run this
and one other and then we'll uh we go
back to deving on it and I'm at least
satisfied it does something
Turns very slowly.
and give it 100 mil. And then we'll try
the other one. And then we'll be done
with this. And we will uh continue
cleaning up code and all of
that for a little bit.
So this will be prior replay
versus random
This doesn't seem to be performing crazy
well,
though. Yeah, if random immediately
beats this, we're going to have to go
tune some stuff.
So, we'll see how this does by
comparison.
Is this going to just do way
better? Yeah. So, this is just going to
immediately do better.
Well, this is a good thing to wonder
like why, right?
This is not going to get 100%
solved. It should level
off. But then the question is why is
prioritize not better here? I saw it be
better on the single task.
value is the only thing that changes,
right? Because when you compute the
advantage, values, rewards, done, gamma,
lambda. Yeah. So the only thing that
changes
There's the
value and you do recomputee the
value every mini
batch. You do recomputee
J E every mini batch.
Okay. So this is the curve that we
have. Let's see how mean
samples mean sample uses should be
two
right
maxes. Get out of here,
bot. All
right. So, it's not crazy different
really.
It's not really prioritizing, is
it? Well, that's weird. It should
definitely
be. We would expect this to be way
higher.
I wonder if there is something screwy
here where
like it's probably way easier to train
the value function than the
policy. Does that make sense?
Like if the value
function learns the correct
value actually wait if if you have a
perfect value function in PPL what
happens?
You don't learn anything,
right? I think this hang on maybe.
What's the value loss?
Value loss is still higher but we are
selecting for the highest value loss
things. It's not dipping though.
Managers sum is
zero.
Okay, we have advantages.
This is all zeros.
Why are any of these
things? Oh, right. Because it's going to
be Yeah, there's going to be uh some
noise on fire.
So this isn't good, right?
This one just happens to be bigger.
Yeah, you can't even
tell what has the
advantages about
this. Is there like an off by one or
something? Why is this um
It's like there's an off by one.
There's
brewing. If I do
this, that doesn't seem like it'll be
good either,
though. That'll just give you all the
easy segments.
We'll let this run, but I'm gonna undo
this. Why is advantage not giving you
advantage? Delta
rewards minus
values. I see
Well, whatever I did here just doesn't
work.
We have to just like give it a couple
epochs.
Maybe we just give it a couple epox.
could have had some time to learn some
stuff, All right.
Maybe the advantages. Hang on. Do these
line up?
Did I put the break point in the wrong
spot? Maybe we need to do it
here before I do this
assign. Just make sure I'm not screwing
this up.
Okay. Your
advantages. Well, I like the advantages
at the end there. you have a positive
advantage. So if we do
A lot of these have rewards,
right? Yeah, a lot of these have
rewards.
whereas it's ways parser overall. So
here you actually do get a lot of these
higher
reward samples into the prioritized
buffer.
So why is this not just immediately a
free win then?
value functions trained to predict
discounted
returns. Well, maybe this is the
stailness. Hang on.
Is it because the value function isn't
action condition?
I might have missed something here.
I'm going to have to think about this a
little
bit. So, basically, I'm trying to see if
there is actually an on policy thing.
The value
function is being trained to
predict either this or this. If we use
this simple
case, it's going to be trying to predict
the rewards going
forward. that those rewards are a
function of the current
policy implicitly.
I see.
Okay. But
like we have uh we have stuff to play
around with this for sure.
We have out we have options
here
because even if this is going to take
more changes before we can use
prioritized replay, we're still going to
be able to use this as advantage
filtering. All right, I've got to do a
few things. I've got to get some
exercise. I got to get some food. And
then the goal is going to be to be back
around 11ish Easter. Um, and get in like
a full day stream from there. So for
folks watching, I'm going to be working
on this algorithm and this
implementation a lot more later. If
you're interested in following all this
RLD dev live, buffer.ai, start the
GitHub to help us out. Really helps out
a lot. We're trying to hit 2K stars. If
you want to get involved in dev, just
join the Discord and you can follow me
on X for more RL content. Thanks and
I'll be